THE IDLE SPEED CONTROL SYSTEM EXERCISE: STUFF THAT MATTERS
----------------------------------------------------------
      2.5l 5-cylinder port fuel injected SI engine

- MOTIVATION
  Modern SIE: low idle speed limits (700 rpm), but torque
  changes may stall the engine at these speeds => fast
  idle speed control system is inevitable

- STRUCTURE OF THE CONTROL SYSTEM
  o Main input = engine speed

  o Main output = ...
      * air command (u_alpha): throttle throttle valve
        position; slower response
      * ignition command (u_zeta/du_ign): retardation of
        the iginition angle from its maximum brake
        torque position change engine torque almost
        instantaneously with reduced efficiency and
        increased emissions
    Conclusion (i.e. the main goal of the ISCS:
      => Initially use ignition command to compensate
         torque fluctuations while waiting for the
         slow response from the air command

- ASSUMPTIONS
  o Air to fuel ratio is constant and stoichiometric
    (i.e. lambda = 1)
  o Disturbance torque is not measurable, i.e. there
    is no feedforward control possible.
    
- SOME REMARKS ON IGNITION ANGLE 
The ignition angle is measured in degrees before top dead
center (BTDC). Therefore, an ignition DELAY has a
NEGATIVE value (closer to TDC). The relation between the
ignition angle zeta and the engine torque T_e is quadratic,
with a maximum at some positive zeta ( = some angle before
TDC), called the maximum brake torque MBT. This point is
dependent on engine conditions and hard to determine
exactly, which is why we redefine the parabola centered
around the MBT define the ignition angle relative to this
value.
  Trying to operate the engine with an ignition angle
zeta_MBT would yield maximum torque and efficiency, but it
would prevent us from using it as a control input (we can't
increase the torque more than MBT). Therefore, zeta is kept
at a higher (earlier) and slightly less efficient value
zeta_0. When necessary, it can be decreased to increase the
torque.
  du_ign is the ignition delay (measured in degrees BTDC)
with respect to the MBT. Because of this definition, it is
0 at the MBT and becomes more negative towards zeta_0 (more
negative = earlier). It is never desirable to ignite
earlier than zeta_0 as it decreases the efficiency and the
torque even further.

- NOTES ON MILESTONE I
  o Engine is modelled as a volumetric pump
  o The engine is assumed to be decoupled from the drive-
    train (minimum inertia!); disturbance torques are
    assumed to act on the flywheel directly.
  o The alternator is used to create variable load torques
    by means of a controllable electrical load. 
  o Hints:
   * Use fixed-step (size 0.001s) solver in Simulink
   * Simulation options in the paramter file:
      simopt = simset('Solver', 'ode1', 'FixedStep',
                       1e-3, 'SrcWorkspace, 'current')

- NOTES ON MILESTONE II
General approach: the first subsystems in the causality
chain are identified first using intermediate system
outputs.

  o Throttle parameters (quasistatic measurements)
    Estimate alpha_0, alpha_1 that provide a linear
    relation between the throttle input and the throttle
    area, which can be obtained with equation (2.3). This
    can be done without Simulink model using linear least
    squares (lls).
  o Engine mass flow parameters (quasistatic measurements)
    BEWARE: lambda_[...] refers to volumetric efficiency,
    lambda without subscript is the AF ratio.
    lamba_lw is assumed to be a linear function of the
    engine speed with parameters gamma_0 and gamma_1, which
    have to be identified. lambda_lw can be obtained from
    measurements by equation (2.4) in the manual. Again,
    apply lls to determine the desired parameters.
  o Intake manifold volume (dynamic measurements)
    Use simulink model with following blocks
      * Throttle area
      * Throttle air mass flow
      * Engine air mass flow
      * Intake manifold
    (!) Use throttle mass flow model instead of the measured
        data for mdot_alpha.
    Similar to the intake manifold exercise, use fminsearch
    to minimize the rms error between the p_m estimated by
    the model and the p_m of the measurements.
    (!) Use the engine speed from the data instead of the
        feedback from the model
  o Generator efficiency = 0.7 (given)
  o Use the 0028 data file for dynamic identification (see slides exercise 
    session 8)


    
   
